>> Sarah Drasner: There's another
way I could have made this.
So, if I didn't wanna use morphSVG and
I didn't want to use a glue filter,
there's a million ways you
can do all these things.
You don't have to them just one way.
We talked about this with
the many element scene.
Totally cool to make big div
over the whole thing, or a big
path over the whole thing and then change
things, adding a filter totally helps.
Or we could use HSL, they're both
totally valid ways of doing it.
So, Blake Bowen is a really great
person to follow on CodePen.
He has all sorts of great CodePens, and
he did this CodePen sample to show
how a Catmull-Rom spline works.
Catmull-Rom spline isn't
something he invented.
But this pen shows how
it works really nicely.
So he's got these kind of path values, and
he's using a Catmull-Rom spline
to soften those path values.
And this is what a Catmull-Rom spline
looks like in terms of code, and
if you wanna read more about it,
there's an article.
About the camel rhyme spline,
that if you go on and get super nerdy and
find out more about that.
It's kind of a similar premise to what we
were talking about before with that buzzy
A, the motion along
the path kind of thing.
Not the same, but similar concept.
So, here we've got a polygon
with a bunch of path points.
But we could totally change
these polygons around.
Like, what if we made a polygon that was
kind of like a flame with a bunch of
different path points, smoothed
that out and then changed, animated
the path points around, and then it's just
smoothing out that shape the whole time.
So we wouldn't necessarily need to use
a filter in morphSVG if we didn't want to.
Or we could apply the filter still.
And not need morph SVG,
cuz we know the path points.
So that's another way of working with it.
I could have made it more programatically.
And you can do all sorts of effects.
I made this the same way, basically,
which is just a bunch of different
gradients and shapes, and
then For you now the wick.
It's like that, you know,
wick looking thing and
then it kind of decrease in
opacity as the smoke goes up.
Again, lots of YouTube videos [LAUGH] And
watching smoke.
I got a bunch of candles and
I'm blowing them out and watching them.
And you look really crazy when
you do stuff like that, but
it's also actually a nice way of
seeing how things work and move.
So if you're thinking, where do I get
started, how do I get an idea for
an animation?
Definitely look around you, and get ideas
from the things that are around you.
>> Sarah Drasner: So this pen,
I just fixed this to do the Start button.
You can't use audio now,
unless you have a Start button on the web.
>> Sarah Drasner: [LAUGH] so
this is an audio
file that I worked with.
I took two audio files, the static and the
booming, no, that's three audio files, and
I put them together.
And you know how the rest of these work,
probably.
I animated a filter, right, that was how
that kind of crumbly thing happened.
One of the things was DRAW SVG,
all of the Missiles.
Its Kind of a bumming pens
are mean to like bum us all
out before the end of the day.
And then that scattering apart with all
of the triangles what did I use for
that I know I'm really testing your
memory because there's like way back in
the beginning of the day.
>> Sarah Drasner: It was cycle stagger.
So it was like, remember that pen
where things shattered apart?
So I basically said go in x,
that direction, that direction,
that direction, that direction.
Go in y, that direction, that direction,
And then you get a burst really easily,
and
of course, by creating that burst,
I needed a few things to fire at once.
I need the filter to fire, I needed
the you know, thing to scatter apart.
I needed the color to change.
What did I do on the timeline to make
sure this all happen at the same time?
>> Speaker 2: Entered
all particular labels.
>> Sarah Drasner: That's right,
I used a label.
So, I said, label of boom.
And then I made everything
happen at the same time.
So I could even adjust and I did, adjust
all the animation that came before it.
And that's, okay because I could go back
and the boom was always still the same.
>> Sarah Drasner: So here again, we've got
that base frequency, I'm changing some
filter stuff around, but you see these
tl.call, the formatting got weird.
These are all lined up in real life.
I have this tl.call add attribute,
remove attribute.
These are functions.
So you can actually call functions
within a timeline by using tl.call,
and then adding the function in.
So what these calls are is that I'm
adding the filter into the, I'm applying
the filter when I need it, and then
I'm removing the filter when I'm done.
Because filters can be kind
of performance-intensive, so
I didn't want it on there while everything
else was happening, I don't need it yet.
So I add it, and then use it,
and I take it away so
that it's not affecting
the performance of anything else.
So here's the add attribute.
So I'm setting the attribute, and then I'm
applying it, and then I'm removing it.
And then here's this pen
that my friend Chris Gannon,
who's a really amazing animator that
you should totally follow on CodePen.
He says it's really creepy and
he hates it, so I gotta show it to you.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Sarah Drasner: So
each key that I'm pressing, we'll do like
a different thing and
make different sounds pop in.
>> [MUSIC]
>> Sarah Drasner: So you know how
this stuff is made probably too.
So this is Draw SVG, yeah I use that for
a lot of weird effects.
This F will kind of explore the code of.
The rest of these are just timelines.
I just retrigger it, I make a timeline
that has R tween max or something.
And then I retrigger it for
each one of these key presses.
And I've got some HSL going
on in the background.
I'm actually making it so
that you can keep playing with it, and
change the whole scene.
And it just stays weird,
that's just a choice.
So cool, for that balloon basically
what I'm doing is I'm, we've got the CX
and CY and the radius to make a circle.
So every time I hit the key
the radius gets bigger, the CY
adjust, so that it's like staying
in the same place basically.
And then ones the radius
gets to a certain pont.
Then I play a sound of it popping and
I have this whole timeline of the balloon
kind of scattering and stuff.
And then I have a set time
out that puts the radius and
see y back in the same place again.
>> Sarah Drasner: And, I played with this
on mobile and I had the keyboard and
I had the keys doing it.
But the keyboard kind of covered some
of it, and it was really awkward, and
I didn't really like it very much.
So I just took the palette that I was
working with for the drawing, and
I stuck in on the screen, and
I had people play with that instead.
So instead of using the ADSF keys,
they can play with this palette and
push each button and
it activates it that way.
The palette is shown to
the screen through large and
very horrible regex,
like really I apologize.
But I really didn't wanted to be a media
query because I didn't wanted to
ever show up on desktop,
I just only really wanted it on phones.
So in order to do that you apparently need
like seven lines of the most
horrible red jacks in the world.
So if you will look at the code for
that, I think there's
an apology in comments there.
So everyone smiles I gotta tweet
that's like it's okay you're fun.
But someone just read that code.
We talked about how
you can use split
text to tell a story.
>> Sarah Drasner: So I made this pen and
Sarah Swedon showed it in one of her talks
and said, how many introverts
are in the audience today, and
nobody raised their hand.
[LAUGH] Which is what we do [LAUGH].
So, you can kinda play
around with things and
make short little scenes and create stuff.